#summary How to use html5media in your document.
#labels Featured

=Getting started=

To enable HTML5 video tags in all major browsers, simply paste the following code into the `<head>` of your document:

{{{
<script src="http://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/jquery/1.4.2/jquery.min.js"></script>
<script src="http://html5media.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/src/jquery.html5media.min.js"></script>
}}}

If you're already using [http://jquery.com/ jQuery 1.4] in your page, then you can leave the first line out. Just be sure to include *html5media* underneath your own jQuery declaration.

==Video tag syntax==

HTML5 video tags can be embedded using the following syntax:

{{{
<video src="video.mp4" width="320" height="240" controls autobuffer></video>
}}}

You can control the behaviour of the video by including the following optional attributes:

  * *controls* - Add a set of controls to the video.
  * *autobuffer* - Start downloading the video automatically.
  * *autoplay* - Start playing the video automatically.
  * *loop* - Keep playing the video in a loop.

==Adding a splash image==

It is highly recommended that you add a splash image to all your video tags. This gives people something to see while the rest of the video downloads. Simply use the `poster` attribute as follows:

{{{
<video src="video.mp4" width="320" height="240" poster="image.jpg" controls autobuffer></video>
}}}

==Styling video tags==

It is important not to directly style the video tags in your document using CSS. This is because browsers that do not support video tags will have them replaced by a [http://www.flowplayer.org Flash video player].

To style your video tags using CSS, simply assign them a `class` or an `id`, and attach CSS style rules to that. The replacement Flash video player will have the same `id` and `class` as the video tag, so will pick up the same style rules.

==Dynamically inserted video tags==

The *html5media* script is run automatically when your page loads. However, if you use Javascript to create your own HTML5 video tags dynamically, these might not be caught by the script.

To ensure that dynamically-inserted video tags are usable in all browsers, you must run the following line of code whenever you've finished inserting video tags.

{{{
$.html5media()
}}}

==Hosting your own html5media==

If you don't trust Google Code to host the files used by *html5media*, then don't worry. Simply [http://code.google.com/p/html5media/source/checkout checkout] the code and copy the contents of the `src` folder onto your own webserver. You can then link to your own copy rather than the one hosted on Google Code.

If you keep all the *html5media* files in the same folder, and it should all work just fine. If you move the `flowplayer.swf` and `flowplayer.controls.swf` files to another location, then you'll need to tell *html5media* where they are using the following javascript commands:

{{{
$.html5media.flowplayerSwf = "/path/to/your/flowplayer.swf";
$.html5media.flowplayerControlsSwf = "/path/to/your/flowplayer.controls.swf";
}}}
